# Comparison of different compressed sensing algorithms for low SNR 19F MRI application - imaging of transplanted pancreatic islets and cells labeled with perfluorocarbons
Transplantation of pancreatic islets is a possible treatment option for patients suffering from type 1 diabetes. In vivo imaging of the transplanted islets is important for the assessment of the transplantation site and islet distribution over time. Thanks to its high specificity, the absence of intrinsic background signal in biological tissue and its potential for quantification, 19F MRI is a promising technique for monitoring the fate of transplanted islets in vivo. In order to overcome the inherent low sensitivity of 19F MRI leading to often long acquisition times with low signal-to-noise ratios (SNR), compressed sensing (CS) techniques are considered a valuable tool. In this study, we have validated and compared different CS algorithms for acceleration of 19F MRI acquisition in a low SNR regime using pancreatic islets labeled with perfluorocarbons (PFC) both in vitro and in vivo after subcutaneous transplantation.
Using offline simulation on both, in vitro and in vivo low SNR, fully sampled 19F MRI datasets of PFC labeled islets, we have shown that CS is effective in reducing the image acquisition time by a factor of three to four without seriously affecting SNR, regardless of the particular algorithms used in this study with the exception of the CoSaMP algorithm.  Using CS for in vivo experiments, a four-fold gain in scan time due to the application of CS could be re-invested in an increased SNR by increasing scan averages. Hereby, signals can be detected that might have been missed by conventional 19F MR acquisition. Among different algorithms (SPARSEMRI, OMMP, IRWL1, Two-level and CoSAMP), the Two-level L1 method has shown the best performance if computational time is taken into account.
Overall, we have demonstrated in this study that different existing CS algorithms can be used effectively for low SNR 19F MRI applications. An up to four-fold gain in SNR/scan time could be used to either reduce the scan time, which is beneficial for clinical and translational applications or to increase the number of averages to potentially detect otherwise undetected signal when compared with conventional 19F MRI acquisitions. Potential applications in the field of cell therapy have been demonstrated.

# Reference:
Sayuan Liang, Tom Dresselaers, Karim Louchami, Ce Zhu, Yipeng Liu, Uwe Himmelreich, "Comparison of different compressed sensing algorithms for low SNR 19F MRI application - imaging of transplanted pancreatic islets and cells labeled with perfluorocarbons," NMR in Biomedicine, 2017. 
